>> Jon Kuperman: So, Benji is asking,
has anyone tried using things like
selenium to make automated tests for
accessible keyboard interactions, for
example, tabs, or screen readers?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, so
I've done some before, specifically for
keyboard shortcuts.
I've done a few, so
they like, load up the page.
So yeah, you can use Selenium for
it just fine.
A lot of the time, I think you can get
away with just using JavaScript and
spying on those events.
If you're using Jasmine or something
like that, you could throw a jKey and
then spy on your next item or
whatever it is.
Like if you look at my shortcut library,
like I don't use web driver for it,
I just simply through
in catch time events.
So yeah, that would be faster, but
you can definitely fire it up with some
kind of web driver task, for sure.
>> Jon Kuperman: Okay, I'm gonna
ask Ben's follow up question next.
Also, are there any automated things to
process screenshots in a similar manner to
no coffee?
>> Speaker 2: Not that I know of.
That would be pretty awesome.
Yeah and nothing that I know of,
no coffee is pretty unique right now,
yeah I don't know of anything
that'll apply those layers.
I mean it seems like it would be kind of
trivial like they've done all the work.
Of getting those effects that you
could peek into their source code and
turn it into something automated.
You could even have that plugin
install as part of your CI.
But, yeah, there's nothing that I know
of right now that'll get you screenshots
of different visualizations like that.
That'd be cool.
If anybody wants to build that,
that'd be sweet.
>> Jon Kuperman: Drew is asking
are there any recommended tools for
accessibility testing that can
see into Angular components?
>> Speaker 2: So, yeah,
as far as that, ngAria will go,
I'm not a big Angular person,
I haven't worked with it all that much.
The ngAria I believe will help with a good
amount of stuff as far as essentially
linting out as your creating components.
I'm not sure further than that.
I know that they've done a lot of really
good work with Aria, and I know like
Marcy's Sutton who I mentioned earlier
has worked a lot with the Angular team.
So I might just do a little bit more of
talking around like maybe ask her or see,
I think they have some pretty good
tools set up around it though.
>> Speaker 2: And then with React,
I know the React ally.
I have worked with that and that works
really nicely just like as you're creating
components it's giving you feedback
on things that you likely missed.
>> Jon Kuperman: What would
you consider to be some of
the more challenging accessibility
problems to have to solve?
>> Speaker 2: I think one of the big
things is that the tools are pretty
easy to implement, but
defining what a good work flow is,
I think we even saw it with
some of the simple examples,
where it's like everybody's
kinda bursting with ideas.
Like what if we put a label,
you know what I mean?
And I think that whatever you decide
on is pretty easy to implement, but
figuring out how people use your site and
what the experience should be,
I think that's kinda challenging.
Where a lot of times at Twitter,
we were really fortunate,
we had a few community people in San
Francisco that would come in and show us.
We had blind users that would come in and
be, I do this all the time,
I try to send a tweet to
a friend via DM and it stinks.
Let me show you how.
But it was hard for
us to really like to really figure out
what a good flow should be like,
it's pretty easy to add the R attributes.
It's hard to know how to do it
in a great way and I guess.
I think it's one of
the biggest challenges and
then it's also really challenging like
the more third party software you equip,
the more you kinda like
start struggling with like.
You just do an iFrame and
they pull out a bunch of junk and
that junk is a inaccessible.
And you're like, we're in contract with,
will you please fix this, and it's like
it's not really in our, things like that,
interfacing can be really difficult to,
where it your users that are affected but
it's not really your software to control.
And then the third thing
I think is just like
that same thing I started talking with.
Everyone kind of feels like it's
everyone else's problem and
like times where I've been like
this is inaccessible and it's like,
we're just gonna ship it now and
we'll fix it later.
And I'm like, yeah but
you don't understand.
The design looks nicer but we're breaking
function, like it works right now
accessibility, this new feature
is broken like how can we,
you know if it was any non-accessibility
issue we'd never ship it.
But a lot of times I think there is
like a general, its just difficult.
It's difficult to get priority for
it, it's difficult to get like
success criteria around it and like its
difficult to get everybody you know what I
mean kinda on I don't think anybody would
complain if you're like I'm gonna spend
my weekends doing accessibility work for
our site they'd be like great.
But then when your like hey
we're gonna be put a freeze on
this feature until it's accessible
like you start ruffling feathers so
I think that's like, that's probably
been the biggest challenge honestly.
>> Jon Kuperman: As you were doing
research for this have you noticed any
kind of black hat techniques people
are using to get around some
of the accessibility rules, and
the same way people might abuse SCO stuff.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, SCO's a big one,
whether it's content on page or
image alt stuff.
Another one that, I don't know if
I would call it black hat, but
it's a bummer, is when you have
an accessible version of your site,
which is rubbish it's
just like no cool stuff.
Just some text not interactive.
I think that's like just a real bummer and
I think people
get really sad at that kinda thing where
they're like, it's a little blurry.
And then they click.
There'll be like a link like
our accessible version, and
it's just like terrible.
So I see that a lot.
And again I think it's just like it's like
could you spend a quick day, do a quick
audit add some alts, you know what I
mean screeners are so good already but
then people are like alright we're just
gonna remove all the JavaScript CSS and
you know what I mean I think that's
another big one that I see pretty often.
>> Jon Kuperman: Even in, another question
what about responsive design when you
get into things like flexbox and
reordering Dom elements.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, yeah,
that's interesting.
So for
the most part that stuff goes really well.
In the sense that whether it's
left/right or top/bottom,
the first thing's still first as far
as what the screen reader's gonna read.
There are some things,
especially when you get out of CSS and
more into using JavaScript
to move stuff around.
Where you can really mess up
the like the Dom tree and
you've changed it out from under someone.
So I think that one you have
to be more careful with.
But I do find like Flexbox and
floats degrade pretty nicely.
Just cuz like I said, the first one
stays first, whether it's above or
to the left, yeah.
>> Jon Kuperman: From Ben again,
it seems like navigation menus might be
a hotspot for accessibility problems.
Any suggestions for building navigation
menus on content heavy sites?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, definitely.
So I think the big issue you
run into is like drop downs and
fly outs making them accessible.
This is actually something,
I think, I'd like to add to
the code base as an example.
So it's like there's some
cool things you can do.
The thing that I would
recommend doing is really
getting familiar with the tab index
stuff because what you can do is like,
you can basically, so
what you wouldn't wanna have happen.
If you have like ten items wide and
each one has a dropdown of five items
deep and each one of those is a fly out.
What you don't want is for someone to
get to the tenth item, then have to hit
the first one which causes the drop down
then go through, you know that I mean?
You don't wanna have to go,
does that make sense? Like,
going through hundreds of items cuz
that's the order that they appear in?
So you'd wanna make sure that,
if you focused on an item which as a drop
down, and those drop downs have flyouts,
those flyouts are hidden until the
dropdown's focused, that kind of stuff.
I would even probably go, maybe go
as far as like each top level item,
you would take all of its children
out of the tab index, and
you'd put an Aria hat,
I can't remember what it is, but
you'd put an Aria label on it, to let
the screen readers know that there's more.
And only show that to screen readers
if they hit space something like that.
Yeah there's a lot of
concerns with navigations,
especially with dropdowns and flyouts.
But I think the big thing is going
through it with the screen reader on and
plucking stuff out.
And then putting it back in
only when it needs to be read.
And you can do that I think pretty easily
just with JavaScript selectors and
be like, okay,
take all the level one and two items and
put a negative tab index on them.
And then only when a key down
is triggered down on a parent,
take that one and put tab index
back on them something like that.
>> Speaker 2: Those things
are tough from UI perspective too.
Right, like cuz another one that's sort
of in the realm of accessibility and I'm
sure we've all experienced flyout menus
where you are the littlest bit off and
you lose the whole thing and
you have to go back into there's a,
I think if you have to do one of those,
there's a lot of concerns.
Like design UX accessibility, but
it's doable it's defiantly doable.
And again, if you use a popular framework,
they usually will give you a head start.